Re-write "Scaling Out Airflow" Guide (#203)
astronomer/airflow-guides: guides/airflow-scaling-workers.md

tags: ["Workers", "Concurrency", "Parallelism", "DAGs"]
---
<!-- markdownlint-disable-file -->

## Overview

> One of Apache Airflow's biggest strengths is its ability to scale as the needs of your team grow. To make the most of Airflow's extensibility, there are a few key settings that you should consider modifying as you scale up your data pipelines.

Author: ```suggestion
One of Apache Airflow's biggest strengths is its scalability. To make the most of Airflow, there are a few key settings that you should consider modifying as you scale up your data pipelines.
```

Airflow exposes a number of parameters that are closely related to DAG and task-level performance. These fall into 3 categories:

- Environment-level settings
- DAG-level settings
- Operator-level settings

Environment-level settings are generally set in the `airflow.cfg` file or through environment variables, while DAG and task-level settings are typically specified in code.

In this guide, we'll walk through key values in each category in the context of scale and performance.

## Environment-level Airflow Settings

> Environment-level settings are typically set in the `airflow.cfg` file, which is required in all Airflow projects. All settings in this file have a default value that can be overriden by modifying the file directly. Default values are taken from the [default_airflow.cfg file](https://github.com/apache/airflow/blob/master/airflow/config_templates/default_airflow.cfg) in Airflow project source code.

Author: ```suggestion
Environment-level settings are typically set in the `airflow.cfg` file, which is required in all Airflow projects. All settings in this file have a default value that can be overridden by modifying the file directly. Default values are taken from the [default_airflow.cfg file](https://github.com/apache/airflow/blob/master/airflow/config_templates/default_airflow.cfg) in Airflow project source code.
```

> To check current values for an existing Airflow environment, navigate to **Admin** > **Configurations** in the Airflow UI. For more information, read [Setting Configuration Options](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/howto/set-config.html) or [Configuration Reference](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/configurations-ref.html) in Airflow documentation.

Author: ```suggestion
To check current values for an existing Airflow environment, go to **Admin** > **Configurations** in the Airflow UI. For more information, read [Setting Configuration Options](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/howto/set-config.html) or [Configuration Reference](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/configurations-ref.html) in Airflow documentation.
```

- **`max_active_runs_per_dag`** determines the maximum number of active DAG Runs (per DAG) the Airflow Scheduler can handle at any given time. If this is set to 16, that means the Scheduler can handle up to 16 active DAG runs per DAG. In Airflow, a [DAG Run](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/dag-run.html) represents an instantiation of a DAG in time, much like a task instance represents an instantiation of a task.

### Concurrency Example

Let's assume we have an Airflow environment that uses the default settings defined above and runs 4 Celery Workers. If we have 4 Celery Workers and `worker_concurrency=16`, we could theoretically run 64 tasks at once. Because `parallelism=32`, however, only 32 tasks are able to run at once across Airflow.

If all of these tasks exist within a single DAG and `dag_concurrency=16`, however, we'd be further limited to a maximum of 16 tasks at once.

## DAG-level Airflow Settings

There are two primary DAG-level Airflow settings users can define in code:

> - **`max_active_run`** is the maximum number of active DAG Runs allowed for the DAG in question. Once this limit is hit, the Scheduler will not create new active DAG Runs. If this setting is not defined, the value of `max_active_runs_per_dag` (described above) is assumed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **`max_active_runs`** is the maximum number of active DAG Runs allowed for the DAG in question. Once this limit is hit, the Scheduler will not create new active DAG Runs. If this setting is not defined, the value of `max_active_runs_per_dag` (described above) is assumed.
```

Using pools, we can control how many tasks can run across a specific subset of DAGs. If we assign a single pool to multiple tasks, the pool ensures that no more than a given number of tasks between the DAGs are running at once. As you scale Airflow, you'll want to use pools to manage resource usage across your tasks.

To create a pool:

1. In the Airflow UI, go to **Admin** > **Pools**.

2. Create a pool with a name and a number of slots. In this example, we created a pool with 5 slots. This means that no more than 5 tasks assigned to the pool can run at a single time.

    ![image](https://assets2.astronomer.io/main/guides/airflow-scaling-workers/create_pool.png)

3. Assign your tasks to the pool:

  ```python
    t1 = MyOperator(
      task_id='pull_from_api',
      dag=dag,
      pool='My_REST_API'
    )
  ```

> > **Note:** If you're developing locally with the Astronomer CLI, you can define Airflow Pools in the `airflow_settings.yaml` file that was automatically generated when you initialized your Airflow project with `$ astro dev init`. This file allow you to set Pools, Variables, and Connections in a single file such that you don't have to manually re-create them in the Airflow UI every time you restart your environment. For more information, read [Customize your Airflow Image on Astronomer](https://www.astronomer.io/docs/cloud/stable/develop/customize-image#configure-airflowsettingsyaml).

Author: ```suggestion
> **Note:** If you're developing locally with the Astronomer CLI, you can define Airflow Pools in the `airflow_settings.yaml` file that was automatically generated when you initialized your Airflow project with `$ astro dev init`. You can use this file to set Pools, Variables, and Connections without needing to manually recreate them in the Airflow UI whenever you restart your environment. For more information, read [Customize your Airflow Image on Astronomer](https://www.astronomer.io/docs/cloud/stable/develop/customize-image#configure-airflowsettingsyaml).
```
